Adding documentation for using the git-ssh-checkout plugin with Buildkite hosted agents (#2847)
buildkite/docs: pages/pipelines/hosted_agents/code_access.md

# Hosted agents code access

> Natively, Buildkite hosted agents can only be used with GitHub integrated repositories. To utilize a private repository from another provider, we've [made a plugin](https://github.com/buildkite-plugins/git-ssh-checkout-buildkite-plugin) available that's documented below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Natively, Buildkite hosted agents can only be used with GitHub integrated repositories. To utilize a private repository from another provider, we have [made a plugin](https://github.com/buildkite-plugins/git-ssh-checkout-buildkite-plugin) available that is documented below.
```

Reviewer: total not-blocking nit 😂 not sure if we have guidelines on apostrophes, but during my uni degree I had them drilled out of me for reports / docs

Reviewer: Mind you, I spoke lazy Kiwi slang and a bunch of my lecturers were German that knew English better than I did hahahhahahah

To learn more about changes that may need to be completed at an individual pipeline level, see [Pipeline migration](/docs/pipelines/hosted-agents/pipeline-migration).

> ## GitHub private repositories

Reviewer: step 1 of this section takes you here to the notif section

![image](https://github.com/buildkite/docs/assets/78014112/47ba16b3-c6f9-4eb7-a665-195e2bb6a6d7)

Not sure if that is what we want?
cc @mbelton-buildkite

Reviewer: (not your changes @CerealBoy but thought I'd point out and confirm incase)

Author: @123sarahj123 This looks to be a permissions problem, as the **Repository Providers** isn't present their either (this is the same for me in prod, I can see in local where I'm admin though). I'll add a note here about having the right permissions on the Buildkite org to make the required changes.

# Hosted agents code access

> Natively, Buildkite hosted agents can only be used with GitHub integrated repositories. To utilize a private repository from another provider, we have [made a plugin](https://github.com/buildkite-plugins/git-ssh-checkout-buildkite-plugin) available that is documented below.

Reviewer 2: Suggested rewording for the intro...

```suggestion
Buildkite hosted agents can access private repositories in GitHub natively, by authorizing Buildkite to access these GitHub repositories. To access private repositories from another provider, the [git-ssh-checkout-buildkite-plugin](https://github.com/buildkite-plugins/git-ssh-checkout-buildkite-plugin) plugin is available to provide this capability.
```

To learn more about changes that may need to be completed at an individual pipeline level, see [Pipeline migration](/docs/pipelines/hosted-agents/pipeline-migration).

## GitHub private repositories

> To use a private GitHub repository with Buildkite hosted agents, you will need to authorize Buildkite to access your repository.

Reviewer 2: I'm starting to use this convention ... mention closer to the start that the "Buildkite organization administrator" role is required for this and link through to the relevant documentation on this...

```suggestion
To use a private GitHub repository with Buildkite hosted agents, you need to authorize Buildkite to access your repository. This process can only be conducted by [Buildkite organization administrators](/docs/team-management/permissions#manage-teams-and-permissions-organization-level-permissions)
```

I'd avoid using callouts/admonitions to indicate this information as based on the number of times we'd need to mention this in the docs, the number of callouts would become far too distracting.

> > 📘 Buildkite organization administrator permissions required

Reviewer: 🔥

> > 📘 Buildkite organization administrator permissions required
> > To modify the repository provider configuration for your Buildkite organization, you will need to have the **Administrator** role. Reach out to your organization administrator if you do not have the required access enabled.

Reviewer 2: This can be removed based on the previous suggestion's implementation. 

```suggestion
```

> 1. Navigate to your [Buildkite organization's settings page](https://buildkite.com/organizations/~/settings).
> 1. On the left hand menu select **Repository Providers**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Select **Settings** in the global navigation to access the [**Organization Settings**](https://buildkite.com/organizations/~/settings) page.
1. In the **Integrations** section, select **Repository Providers**.
```

## Public repositories

Buildkite does not require any special permissions to access public repositories.

## Other private repositories

There are 2 key aspects to utilizing a private repository with Buildkite hosted agents.

1. Adding an SSH key as a Secret to the Buildkite hosted agent cluster.
1. Adding the plugin to the initial pipeline steps, and any further steps within the pipeline that are loaded.

### Adding the SSH key secret

Navigate to **Agents** from the top menu, and open the **Cluster** for Buildkite hosted agents. In the left-hand side navigation, there will be a **Secrets** option to follow. Clicking the **New Secret** button will open a modal to capture the new secret.

<%= image "secret-creation.png", width: 1516, height: 478, alt: "Creating a secret called GIT_SSH_CHECKOUT_PLUGIN_SSH_KEY" %>

This secret should contain the full private key (including the header and footer) that will be used to access the repository.

If there are multiple distinct keys to be used throughout the cluster, make sure to name them appropriately so they can each be used at their correct times.

### Adding a new pipeline

> With the secret available, a new pipeline can be added that will use it and allow for the Git repository to be used.

Reviewer: Some optional phrasing suggestions

With the secret now available, you can add a new pipeline to use it and access the Git repository.

The availability of the secret allows the creation of a new pipeline to utilize it and access the Git repository.

Once the secret is available, a new pipeline can be set up to use it and enable Git repository access.

> Create a new pipeline using the **Create a new pipeline without provider integration** link on the **New pipeline** page. Complete the form with the basic details about the new pipeline, including the Git URL. At this time, the **Steps** can also be updated to include the plugin usage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a new pipeline following the **Create a new pipeline without provider integration** link on the **New pipeline** page. Complete the form with the basic details about the new pipeline, including the Git URL. At this time, the **Steps** can also be updated to include the plugin usage.
```
```suggestion
Create a new pipeline using the **Create a new pipeline without provider integration** link on the **New pipeline** page. Complete the form with the basic details about the new pipeline, including the Git URL. At this time, the **Steps** can also be updated to include the plugin usage.
```

<%= image "pipeline-creation.png", width: 1752, height: 1060, alt: "Adding the details for creating a new pipeline" %>

> To illustrate an example, if we assume there now exists the secret named `GIT_SSH_CHECKOUT_PLUGIN_SSH_KEY` we can set our **Steps** value accordingly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To illustrate an example, if we assume a secret named `GIT_SSH_CHECKOUT_PLUGIN_SSH_KEY` now exists we can set our **Steps** value accordingly.
```
```suggestion
To illustrate an example, if we assume there now exists the secret named `GIT_SSH_CHECKOUT_PLUGIN_SSH_KEY` we can set our **Steps** value accordingly.
```

```yaml
steps:
  - label: "\:pipeline\: Upload"
    command: "buildkite-agent pipeline upload"
    plugins:
      - git-ssh-checkout#v0.3.2:
```

> This base step content uses the new plugin, with the default values, to complete the Git checkout.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This base step content uses the new plugin with the default values to complete the Git checkout.
```

> Once created, a screen is presented about setting up Webhooks. If the Git provider being used supports the GitHub format of webhook communication, the details shown can be used to complete the integration. If not, the **Skip Webhook Setup** button can be used to skip this step. This will mean that builds will require manual triggering.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once created, a screen is presented about setting up Webhooks. If the Git provider being used supports the GitHub format of webhook communication, the details shown can be used to complete the integration. If not, you can use the **Skip Webhook Setup** button to skip this step. This will mean that builds will require manual triggering.
```
```suggestion
Once created, a screen is presented about setting up Webhooks. If the Git provider being used supports the GitHub format of webhook communication, the details shown can be used to complete the integration. If not, the **Skip Webhook Setup** button can be used to skip this step. This will mean that builds will require manual triggering.
```

## Public repositories

Buildkite does not require any special permissions to access public repositories.

> ## Other private repositories

Reviewer 2: Harmonise title with intro...

```suggestion
## Private repositories with other providers
```

> There are 2 key aspects to utilizing a private repository with Buildkite hosted agents.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Using Buildkite hosted agents with a private repository on provider other than GitHub, has the following two requirements:
```

> 1. Adding an SSH key as a Secret to the Buildkite hosted agent cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Add an SSH key as a secret to the Buildkite hosted agent cluster.
```

> 1. Adding an SSH key as a Secret to the Buildkite hosted agent cluster.
> 1. Adding the plugin to the initial pipeline steps, and any further steps within the pipeline that are loaded.

Reviewer 2: > ... within the pipeline that are loaded.

That are loaded to where? (The verb "load" is transitive and so it's missing the object here.)
I'm assuming that you mean the pipeline being uploaded into Buildkite to start building? If so...

```suggestion
1. Add the plugin to the initial pipeline steps, and any further steps within the uploaded pipeline.
```

> ### Adding the SSH key secret

Reviewer 2: We're tending to avoid gerund usage in headings.

```suggestion
### Add the SSH key secret
```

Navigate to **Agents** from the top menu, and open the **Cluster** for Buildkite hosted agents. In the left-hand side navigation, there will be a **Secrets** option to follow. Clicking the **New Secret** button will open a modal to capture the new secret.

<%= image "secret-creation.png", width: 1516, height: 478, alt: "Creating a secret called GIT_SSH_CHECKOUT_PLUGIN_SSH_KEY" %>

This secret should contain the full private key (including the header and footer) that will be used to access the repository.

If there are multiple distinct keys to be used throughout the cluster, make sure to name them appropriately so they can each be used at their correct times.

> ### Adding a new pipeline

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Add a new pipeline
```
